[Instruments][Docs] Z-JSON Instrument Proposal (#4324)
aces/Loris: docs/instruments/ZJSONInstrument_v0.0.1.md

# Z-JSON Instrument Specification

This documentation describes and explains the Z-JSON Instrument. It is supported by a template and an example,
both of which can be found in the same directory.

> The Z-JSON Instrument is the JSON representation of a LORIS instrument. Describing an instrument as a JSON

Author: thanks for the review dave! 🎉 ill make changes

> The Z-JSON Instrument is the JSON representation of a LORIS instrument. Describing an instrument as a JSON

Author: to your point above, this spec is LORIS specific as it talks about the Loris logic parser, the loris metadata fields for instruments, and the loris api and new instrument builder. at what point are we making it too generalizable? at the moment, the only use case is for LORIS and it is the only place Z-JSON is going to be implemented, for now. should generalizing the spec come after in a future version?

object will allow the instrument to be language-independent, human readable, and shareable across different

> platforms. This schema will become an important part of the LORIS API and the New Instrument Builder, and was built

Author: i just copied that from the api instrument format doc, thinking it was important. but you're right!

> to be compatible with both the [ReproNim JSON-LD Form Schema](https://github.com/ReproNim/schema-standardization)

Author: interoperable?

> to be compatible with both the [ReproNim JSON-LD Form Schema](https://github.com/ReproNim/schema-standardization)

Reviewer: ..but what does interoperable mean in this context? How do they interoperate?

> to be compatible with both the [ReproNim JSON-LD Form Schema](https://github.com/ReproNim/schema-standardization)

Author: it means that we built this schema with the intention to easily mappable to both JSON-LD and NDAR via converters that will also be created to be included in the package. how are you looking for me to word this on the spec? @driusan

> to be compatible with both the [ReproNim JSON-LD Form Schema](https://github.com/ReproNim/schema-standardization)

Reviewer: Hm.. I'm not sure about wording, but "compatible" doesn't really say much in this context.

How about the wording that you just said instead of "compatible"? "...was built with the intention to be easily mappable to both ReproNim's JSON-LD schema and NDAR's schema via converters"?

and [NDAR](https://ndar.nih.gov/data_dictionary.html).

# 0.0: Contents

- [1.0: Introduction](#10-introduction)
- [2.0: Schema Overview](#20-schema-overview)
- [3.0: Field Elements](#30-field-elements)
- [4.0: Helper Elements](#40-helper-elements)
- [5.0: UI Properties](#50-ui-properties)

# 1.0: Introduction

The Z-JSON Instrument is comprised of 3 components: the core schema, an accompanying UI configuration, and the

> instrument data.

Reviewer 2: I think it's a good idea however to mention that the data is handled seperately. like dont erase all traces of data, explicitely mention that its separate

```js
{
    "data" : {
        ...
    },
    "schema" : {
        ...
    },
    "ui" : {
        ...
    }
}
```
The core schema describes the instrument's data structure and format, while the UI component decides certain

> front-end properties. Both the schema and the UI component are required in order to have a fully loaded and

Author: that the instrument is loaded and rendered on the front-end with no errors and with all the components of the instrument

            ...
        },
        "helpers" : {
            ...
        },
        "meta" : {
            ...
        },
        "setup"  : [
            ...
        ]
    },      
    ...
}
```
The `meta` key contains important metadata for the instrument, while the `fields` and `helpers` keys contain JSON
objects of data fields and layout elements that make up the instrument. While these 3 keys are unordered JSON
objects, the `setup` key points to an ordered array of page objects. This key defines the page structure of the
instrument as well as the order in which the field or helper elements are rendered. The value of these keys are
described in more detail below.

All keys in the Z-JSON Instrument follow the lowerCamelCase naming convention. They also appear alphabetically
inside each JSON object.

## 2.1: Instrument Metadata

```js
{
    "schema" : {
        ...
        "meta" : {
            "createdBy": string,
            "createdOn": string,
            "createdWith": string,
            "defaultLanguage": string,
            "derivedFrom": string,
            "importedFrom": string,
            "includeMetaDataFields": boolean,
            "instrumentVersion": string,

>             "lastUpdateOn": string,

Reviewer 2: i think it's usefull for the instrument builder, that was the idea the builder would always update that field

>             "lastUpdateOn": string,

Reviewer: why is it useful for the instrument builder? And if it depends on it, what happens if someone edits a file outside of the instrument builder, and then tries to edit it with the instrument builder?

            "longName": {
                ...
            },

>             "multilingual": boolean,

Author: fair enough

`meta.createdWith`: String.

The software or tool responsible for the creation of the ZJSON Instrument i.e. the Instrument Builder module or some conversion script.

`meta.defaultLanguage`: Required String.
                        
The default (human communication) language of the instrument, represented by an IETF BCP 47 (RFC 5646 Standard) language tag e.g. "en-CA".
It is important to set the default language as it is used as a key in other locations of the `schema` object. This key is required to be compatible with
ReproNim's JSON-LD Instrument.

`meta.derivedFrom`: String.
                    
The resource instrument that the Z-JSON Instrument derived from as a result of significant content modification such that the instrument is no longer the same                    
instrument, and the creation of a new version does not suffice.
                    
This level of modification does not include format transcription i.e. linst to
JSON, unless the content of the instrument has also been modified. The
`meta.importedFrom` key should be used in the case of conversions.

`meta.importedFrom`: String.

The resource instrument that this Z-JSON Instrument was converted from, given

> that the imported content is preserved, and only its format is modified.

Reviewer 2: if you convert a php or JSON instrument into Z-JSON. you refer to it here I think. if you later it, you keep this null and refer to the previous version in derived from

> that the imported content is preserved, and only its format is modified.

Reviewer: How about something like:

```
The source that this instrument was converted from, if it was imported from another format and is otherwise unmodified. After any modifications to an imported instrument are made, this field should be set to the empty string.
```

If the Z-JSON instrument is an original instrument, the value of this key is
null.

`meta.includeMetaDataFields`: Boolean. 

True of false that the Z-JSON Instrument will include LORIS-specific
metadata fields, such as 'Candidate Age', or 'Examiner', which
calculates the candidate's age, and selects the examiner
administering the instrument, respectively.  

`meta.instrumentVersion`: Required string.

The version of the instrument being described.

It follows some convention as determined by the author of the instrument,

> starting with some representation of the number 1 and incrementing itself alongside any changes made to the `schema` object. It is self-contained and

Author: do versions not have to increment? i put down 'representation' of the number 1, and not the number itself. so e.g. v0.0.1 would be a representation of 1. I thought the point of versioning is that you can see how far from 1 that version is and see the lineage through numbers

> starting with some representation of the number 1 and incrementing itself alongside any changes made to the `schema` object. It is self-contained and

Author: i think an implementation would need to set a standard for their version string. otherwise, could we set a standard? not sure if this would be compatible with existing versions of current instruments

interpreted independently of the instrument's `shortName` or `longName`.

`meta.lastUpdateOn`: String.

The date at which small modifications, such as bug fixes, that do not justify
a new version be created, was last made.
                          
`meta.longName`: Required object with IETF BCP 47 language tags as keys.

The value of each key will be the long, human readable version of the instrument's name
- its title - provided in every language that the instrument comes in.

`meta.multilingual`: Boolean.

True or false that the instrument is available in more than one language that is
its `defaultLanguage`.

`meta.previousVersion`: String.

The previous version of the Z-JSON Instrument, if significant changes
were made to justify creating this new version of the instrument.

This may be redundant metadata but it may also be helpful in showing the
lineage of existing instruments. If changes to an instrument is so
significant that they no longer share the same lineage, `meta.derivedFrom`

> would be used to track changes. 

Author: instrument A.1 was modified to a new version instrument A.2. In this case, `previousVersion': "instrumentA.1".

instrument A.2 was modified SO much that it is now no longer the same instrument, and has actually become instrument B.1. In this case, instrument B.1 is the first of its kind and does not have a previous version but is instead `derivedFrom`: "instrumentA.2"

`meta.schemaVersion`: Required string.

The version of this Z-JSON Instrument Specification document that the

> instrument complies with. It follows the format of v*SpecVersion*-dev i.e. `v0.0.1-dev` if following this

Author: it could be defined as semver, thats not a bad idea. i'll need some help defining the versions because i'm not totally confident in my knowledge of this

current version.

`meta.shortName`: Required string.

The unique name and identifier of the instrument, also the test name in the
database.

> The name of the Z-JSON Instrument JSON file will follow the format *shortName_instrumentVersion*.

Author: :( can we not hope?? That would be so nice. It could be enforced if the instrument is saved and output from the instrument builder no?

## 2.2: Page Setup

The `setup` key contains an array of objects that represent a page (or LORIS subtest) of an instrument. Each page
object has the following format:

```js
{
    "schema" : {
        ...
        "setup" : [
            {
                "name" : string,
                "type" : "page",
                "description" : string,
                "order": [
                  "nameOfField",
                      ...
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

`setup.name`: String.

>               The name and ID of the page object.

Reviewer 2: i think it's what is in the instrument_subtest table we have now

>               The name and ID of the page object.

Reviewer: To be honest, I've never understood why we had names there either.

`setup.typ`: Required string with value "page".

> `setup.description`: Required string. The label or title of the page that will be rendered on the front-end as a link to the

Author: so this is my intention: if `multilingual`: false, then all `description` keys have value strings that are the description text. if `multilingual`: true, then `description` keys have value object with language tags as keys and description strings as values.

JSON-LD only needs language tags if there are multiple languages. otherwise, the string suffices and you define a "default language" in the context of the JSON-LD to compensate. I'm trying to imitate this so its easier to parse.

I guess I should define this earlier so it's clear that `description` can be either a string or an object depending on `multilingual`. what do you think about keeping the multilingual key in the meta component after all?

> `setup.description`: Required string. The label or title of the page that will be rendered on the front-end as a link to the

Reviewer: I still don't like it. Types shouldn't be context-sensitive.

```js
{
    "schema" : {
        ...
        "fields" : {
            "nameOfField" : {
                "type": string,
                "description": {
                    "lang1": string,
                    "lang2": string,
                        ...
                },
                "options": {
                    ...
                },
                "rules": {
                    "requireIf": string, /* LORIS Logic Parser formula */
                    "displayIf": string, /* LORIS Logic Parser formula */
                    "disableIf": string, /* LORIS Logic Parser formula */
                }
        ...
}
```

A field object has a unique key that is its identifier (ID) and name. The ID will also be used as an identifier for a
database column or a front-end element. Within the field object, there are 4 required keys: type, description, options,
and rules.

`type`: Required string. It represents the field's data type i.e. integer, string, boolean, etc.

This will be the data type of the field's value within the `data` component upon collection:

```js
{
    "data" : {
        "nameOfField" : `schema.fields.nameOfField.type`
    }
}
```

> `description`: Required string. The human readable description of this field, provided in every available language. It

Author: the language code or the description?

> `description`: Required string. The human readable description of this field, provided in every available language. It

Reviewer: The description encoding of the multilingual values.. I think JSON might be defined as being utf-8, but it doesn't hurt to be explicit.

may be rendered on the front-end as a question, or label, text.

`options`: Required object of type-specific keys. It contains the type-dependent options for this field, further
described in section [3.2: Field Types](#32-field-types).

`rules`: Required object with keys whose value may be an empty string.

## 3.1: Rules

The `rules` object contains 3 rules for validation and display: requireIf, displayIf, and disableIf.

```js
{
    "schema" : {
        ...
        "fields" : {
            "nameOfField" : {
                ...
                "rules": {
                    "requireIf": string, /* LORIS Logic Parser formula */
                    "displayIf": string, /* LORIS Logic Parser formula */
                    "disableIf": string, /* LORIS Logic Parser formula */
                }
        ...
}
```

The value of these keys are string expressions of logical formulas. These formulas, when calculated, evaluate to true
or false on the front-end. The formulas are parsed and calculated using the Evaluator function of the LORIS Logic

> Parser, [LParse](https://gitlab.com/zainvirani/LParse). The currently supported logic operations are available in the LParse [README.md](https://gitlab.com/zainvirani/LParse/blob/master/README.md), as well as

Author: should i add it to this same PR?

instructions on how to customize functions. 

`rules.requireIf`: String. True or false that the field requires data input, given the condition in the string expression.

> `rules.displayIf`: String. True or false that the field is displayed in the instrument, given the condition in the string

Reviewer 2: ouuuh I'm curious too now

> `rules.displayIf`: String. True or false that the field is displayed in the instrument, given the condition in the string

Author: a required field must always be displayed. if it's not displayed, then it's not required. however a required field can become disabled, and thus, no longer required. does this make sense?

expression.

> `rules.disableIf`: String. True or false that the field is disabled i.e. not editable nor submittable, given the condition in

Author: answered above ^

the string expression.

## 3.2: Field types

> There are 8 different field types: enum, string, int, decimal, date, time, boolean, and score. Each type

Reviewer 2: I'd say numeric not number but agree

@driusan any ideas to replace enum ? list ? set ?

> There are 8 different field types: enum, string, int, decimal, date, time, boolean, and score. Each type

Reviewer: I don't have any problems with enum being a type.. "list" seems like a UI element that displays enumerations, and "sets" are unordered.

> There are 8 different field types: enum, string, int, decimal, date, time, boolean, and score. Each type

Author: int, decimal and date, time are grouped further below in the spec into numeric and 'Date and Time'. but they are different data types. if we have a field of type numeric, how else can we validate the data if we don't specify that the data is of type int or decimal? i think it makes sense to group them together, but not coalesce them into the same field type. 

from my research, the datetime input element is about to be unsupported. so if we do want to input a datetime, it would have to be two different fields of date and time. thoughts?

                    "minValue" : `nameOfField.type`,
                    "maxValue" : `nameOfField.type`, 
                    "requireResponse" : boolean,
                },
                "rules": {
                    ...
                }
        ...
}
```

`options.minValue`: Integer or decimal, depending on `nameOfField.type`.
                    A number representing the minimum value that the data can be.

`options.maxValue`: Integer or decimal, depending on `nameOfField.type`.
                    A number greater than or equal to `options.minValue` representing the maximum
                    value that the data can be.

`options.requireResponse`: Boolean. Default is true.
                           True or false that an input is required. This key is different to
                           `rules.requireIf` in that it is a true boolean and not dependent on a condition - it is always either true or false.
                           If true, an implementation should automatically add a 'not_answered' value, e.g. rendered as a checkbox, to allow
                           explicit non-answering while still requiring some input value.

### 3.2.4: Date and Time

> A date field takes a data type of form "YYYY-MM-DD". A time field takes a data type of form "HH:MM". The general format is as follows:

Author: i for some reason thought that datetime was being deprecated but i see that it exists so i will add this implementation in!

```js
{
    "schema" : {
        ...
        "fields" : {
            "nameOfField" : {
                "type": "boolean",
                "description" : {
                    ...
                },
                "options": {
                    "requireResponse" : boolean,
                    "readonly" : boolean,
                },
                "rules": {
                    ...
                }
        ...
}
```

`options.requireResponse`: Boolean. Default is true.
                           True or false that an input is required. This key is different to
                           `rules.requireIf` in that it is a true boolean and not dependent on a condition - it is always either true or false.
                           If true, a data input of "false" cannot be submitted, and a 'not_answered' value cannot be given.

`options.readonly`: Boolean.
                    True or false that the field is read only i.e. not editable on the front-end but
                    submittable on save. This key is different to `rules.disableIf` in that it is not
                    dependent on a condition, and a 'disabled' field is not submittable.

### 3.2.6: Score

> A score field is a placeholder whose values are based on the other fields' data. A score field is not

Reviewer 2: a field has a value in the data array. a helper does not.

> A score field is a placeholder whose values are based on the other fields' data. A score field is not

Reviewer: Every type has specific requirements that need to be validated/enforced in how they affect other things, I still don't see why that requirement requires a different structure for the format.

               and also the text to be displayed in the instrument.

It may be rendered on the front-end as a header, depending on the helper type i.e. this will be the
content of the static helper itself, the header of the section helper, or column header for the table.

`options`: Required object of type-specific keys.
           It contains the type-dependent options for this helper, further described in section
           [4.0: Helper Types](#4.0:-helper-types).

`rules`: Required object with keys whose value may be an empty string as described for `fields`.
While instrument `fields` have corresponding `data` associated with it upon form submission, a `helper` is rendered on the front-end as an integral element that however does not collect data. There are
5 types of helpers: the static element, and 4 other layout-specific formatting elements, group, row, table, and section.

## 4.1: Helper Types

### 4.1.1: Static

A `helper` of type "static" represents headings, sub-headings, labels, or informational text that is required in
an instrument. These can be rendered on the front-end as a header, static, or link element.

> Static helpers are some text displayed to provide information and without an accompanying data input.

Reviewer: I don't understand why these are separated in the JSON object. It seems to primarily be for grouping them for human comprehension, but they can be separated in the document into different sections without separating them in the object and they have the same structure and requirements (ie. global uniqueness, references in setup, etc..)

Any technical reasons to separate them require parsing the object anyways, so whether they're "helper" or "data" types can easily be inferred from the type attribute.

Author: hey @driusan i am moving towards consolidating the fields and helpers into one "elements" object. do you still stand by your points above before I move forward? thanks

Static helpers do not have an `options` key.

```js
{
    "schema" : {
        ...
        "helpers" : {
            "nameOfHelper" : {

>                 "type": "static",

Reviewer: What does a "static" type mean?

Reviewer 2: label, heading subheading ... anything text that does not get submitted

Reviewer: I would call it something like "statictext", then.

                "description": {
                    ...
                },
                "rules": {
                    ...
                }
        ...
}
```

### 4.1.2: Group

A helper of type "group" denotes a horizontal collection of elements which should be displayed

> together and is separated by a delimiter.

Reviewer: Do multiple rows in a group have the same spacing? (ie. like a table.)

> They often have rules which work together and may be interdependent. Groups have the following form:

Reviewer: "interdependent" how?

```js
{
    "schema" : {
        ...
        "helpers" : {
            "nameOfHelper" : {
                "type": "group",
                "description": {
                    ...
                },
                "options": {
                    "order": [
                        string,
                        string,
                        ...
                    ]
                },
                "rules": {
                    ...
                }
        ...
}
```

`options.order`: Required array of strings.
                 An array of the names of `fields` or `helpers`, in order, that are to be formatted
                 within this group. It may contain any field, but only helpers of the type "static".
 
### 4.1.3: Row

A helper of type "row" denotes a row in a table. If rows are not in a table, they should be rendered

> as a "group" helper.

Reviewer: In that case, why have "group" helpers and not just define groups as rows that aren't embedded in a table? (or vice versa)?

Reviewer 2: I might be able to answer that one. Due to a recent bug we found in CCNA I think its a good idea to distinguish rows which should depend on the headers of the table they belong in  and groups which are just floating elements grouped together.

the bug: because in the current implementation you define a group of headers and add them to the page and then subsequently define groups of input fields (rows in the table) and add them to the page some  `n` number of times. During a routine bugfix, 2 elements of the hearder (assume header2 and header 3) group were switched (assume header2 went to column 3 and vice versa) and that was not caught during code review, which means that since that was released users had been entering values for header 3 in column 2 and values for header 2 in column 3..... naturally this was a mess to clean up after and we thought it would be a good idea to make tables more strict (ie not adding rows as independent groups). If i remember correctly the idea was to define the header of the column of a field in each field of a row and thus in case the headers dont line up, an error would be thrown

Reviewer 2: see line 772

Reviewer: There's also an argument to be made that separating them are more intuitive for people to understand, I was just wondering if any thought had went into combining them since it would simplify implementations.

                 formatted within the row. It may contain any field, but only helpers of the type "static" and "group".

The size of this array must equal the `options.colSize` value of the table to which the row belongs.

### 4.1.4: Table

A helper of type "table" denotes a list of "row" helpers that are displayed together in a tabular
form.

A table contains only "row" helpers whose `options.order` array must be of the same size.

```js
{
    "schema" : {
        ...
        "helpers" : {
            "nameOfHelper" : {
                "type": "table",
                "description": {
                    ...
                },
                "options": {
                    "colSize" : int,
                    "rowSize" : int,
                    "order": [
                        string,
                        string,
                        ...
                    ],
                    "showColHeaders" : boolean,
                    "showDesc" : boolean,
                    "showAsFooter": boolean,
                },
                "rules": {
                    ...
                }
        ...
}
```
`options.colSize` : Required int.

>                     The number of columns in the table. 

Reviewer: Can't this be inferred?

Author: this is also for validating the elements of the table

`options.rowSize` : Required int.

>                     The number of rows in the table.

Reviewer: Why is this required?

Author: to ensure that the `order` array has the same number of elements as `rowSize` and that none are missing

`options.order`: Required array of strings.
                 An array of the names of `row` helpers, in order, that are to be formatted
                 within this table.

> The size of this array must equal `options.rowSize`.

Reviewer: Why not just infer rowSize from the size of this array?

Author: for validation

At each index (or column) of every "row" element, the `helper` or `field` that is
referenced inside that index has to have its `description` match. This description

> will be rendered as the column header if `options.showColHeaders` is true.

Reviewer: Is there going to be some kind of validator to validate rules like this?

Author: yes, I would like to create a JSON schema of the spec that can be used to validate all Z-JSONs http://json-schema.org/. just as JSON-LD also has its schema and validator.

The only exception is that a "static" helper will never have a corresponding header, 
as its `description` is the static text itself. A column of static elements can have
an empty column header. This is true for only static elements.

`options.showColHeaders`: Boolean. Default is true.
                          True or false that the table's column headers will be displayed as taken
                          from each column's fields' matching `description`.

`options.showDesc`: Boolean. Default is true.
                    True or false that the table's `description` is displayed.

`options.showAsFooter`: Boolean. Default is false.
                        True or false that the description is displayed as a footer, instead of a
                        header.

### 4.1.5: Section

> A helper of type "section" is a vertical grouping of elements whose `rules` can affect its children's rules.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you mean by "affect its children's rules".. affect them how?

Author: if a section's `requireIf` evaluates to true, then all the helper/fields in the section will also be required a.k.a their `requireIf` becomes true

```js
{
    "schema" : {
        ...
        "helpers" : {
            "nameOfHelper" : {
                "type": "section",
                "description": {
                    ...
                },
                "options": {
                    "order": [
                        string,
                        string,
                        ...
                    ],
                    "showDesc" : boolean
                },
                "rules": {
                    ...
                }
        ...
}
```

`options.order`: Required array of strings. An array of the names of `fields` or `helpers`, in order, that are to be
                 formatted within this group. It may contain any field, but only helpers of the type "static".

`options.showDesc`: Boolean. Default is true. True or false that the section's `description` is displayed as the header for
                    section of elements.

> An implementation could choose to set this key to false, and display an independent "static" helper as a header instead.

Reviewer: Why would/wouldn't an implementation do that? It seems like there's value in requiring it so that more semantic meaning can be extracted from the string

Author: the `description` is required. But what if an implementation doesn't want to show it on the front-end?

 
# 5.0: UI Properties

The UI component of the Z-JSON Instrument contains information on how we render our `fields` and `helpers` objects
on the front-end. It is composed of JSON objects whose keys match those of the field or helper object it's describing.

> This component should only make decisions on which HTML or HTML Form element those objects get rendered as,

Reviewer: What if it's not rendered to HTML?

Reviewer 2: we define an other ui object

Reviewer 2: I think this object is meant to be the mapping from field to HTML object... did you have something else in mind ?

Reviewer: mobile app, desktop app, some theoretically successor to HTML.. if it's only for mapping to HTML, why not just use HTML directly?

Author: i see, i guess it doesn't necessarily have to be on the browser

- [text](#516-text-element)
- [textarea](#517-textarea-element)
- [time](#518-time-element)

For helpers:

- [header](#519-header-element) (from h1 to h6)
- [link](#5110-link-element)
- [static](#5111-static-element)

These are all mappable to some LORIS React Form element, except for "header" which is native to HTML.

### 5.1.1 Checkbox Element

```js
{
    "ui": {
        "nameOfField" : {
            "type" : "checkbox"
        }
    }
}
```

### 5.1.2 Date Element

```js
{
    "ui": {
        "nameOfField" : {
            "type" : "date"
        }
    }
}
```

### 5.1.3 Numeric Element

```js
{
    "ui": {
        "nameOfField" : {
            "type" : "number"
        }
    }
}
```

### 5.1.4 Radio Button Element

```js
{
    "ui": {
        ...
        "nameOfRadioButtons" : {
            "type" : "radio",
            "options" : {
                "vertical" : boolean
            }
        }
    }
}
```

`options.vertical`: Boolean. True or false that the radio group is rendered vertically. The default value is false, or
horizontally. 

### 5.1.5 Select Element

```js
{
    "ui": {
        "nameOfField" : {
            "type" : "select"
        }
    }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: I think all of the above need descriptions of what they mean.. I'd also call "select"s "dropdown"s, because that's less specific to HTML.

Author: i think we should keep 'select' because there's also multiselect elements which doesn't make sense as 'multidropdown'

### 5.1.6 Text Element

```js
{
    "ui": {
        "nameOfField" : {
            "type" : "text",
            "options": {
                "placeholder": string
            }
        }
    }
}
```

`options.placeholder`: String. Text that is rendered inside the text element as a placeholder before user input.

### 5.1.7 Textarea Element

```js
{
    "ui": {
        "nameOfField" : {
            "type" : "textarea",
            "options": {
                "placeholder": string
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> `options.placeholder`: String. Text that is rendered inside the text element as a placeholder before user input.

Reviewer: I don't see any reason to separate text and textarea, and not just make them options for the same type.

Reviewer 2: this goes back to the comment on line 830

for me this was where we map input types to HTML types

Reviewer: I think this should be mapping field types to UI concepts, not to HTML types. There are other ways than HTML to build a UI, different versions of HTML, and there are multiple ways even in HTML to build the same UI concept.

### 5.1.8 Time Element 

```js
{
    "ui": {
        "nameOfField" : {
            "type" : "time"
        }
    }
}
```

### 5.1.9 Header Element

A header element renders a "static" `helper` that should be displayed with some level of prominence.

```js
{
    "ui": {
        "nameOfField" : {
            "type" : "header",
            "options": {
                "level": int
            }
        }
    }
}
```

`options.level`: Int. The number indicating the level of the html heading element to be rendered i.e. h1, the highest

> and most prominent, and h6, the lowest and reserved for subheadings.

Reviewer: Why link the levels specifically HTML? Are they required to be consecutive? I think it would be better to require the level to be semantic and just say it's recommended that it not go more than 6 levels deep to make it easier to map to html.

### 5.1.10 Link Element

```js
{
    "ui": {
        "nameOfHelper" : {
            "type" : "link",
        }
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer: Where is the URL for the link type defined?

### 5.1.11 Static Element

```js
{
    "ui": {
        "nameOfHelper" : {
            "type" : "static"
        }
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer: Still not sure what a "static element" means in this spec..

It would probably be a good idea to include an "image" type as well.

Reviewer 3: And probably File as well ?

Reviewer: I think files would be field types and not UI types, but that's a good idea..

Author: file will be for second phase implementation. i like implementation a ui image type but will need to think how that helper element would be defined

                 
`meta.createdWith`: String.

The software or tool responsible for the creation of the ZJSON Instrument i.e. the Instrument Builder module or some conversion script.

`meta.defaultLanguage`: Required String.
                        
The default (human communication) language of the instrument, represented by an IETF BCP 47 (RFC 5646 Standard) language tag e.g. "en-CA".
It is important to set the default language as it is used as a key in other locations of the `schema` object.

`meta.derivedFrom`: String.
                    
The resource instrument that the Z-JSON Instrument derived from as a result of significant content modification such that the instrument is no longer the same                    
instrument, and the creation of a new version does not suffice. What is considered significant here is not defined in this specification, but is instead up to the author to decide.
                    
This level of modification does not include format transcription i.e. linst to
JSON, unless the content of the instrument has also been modified. The
`meta.importedFrom` key should be used in the case of conversions.

`meta.importedFrom`: String.

> The resource instrument that this Z-JSON Instrument was converted from, if it was imported from another format and is otherwise unmodified. If any modifications to the content of the instrument are madeafter conversion, this value should be empty and `meta.derivedFrom` used instead.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The resource instrument that this Z-JSON Instrument was converted from, if it was imported from another format and is otherwise unmodified. If any modifications to the content of the instrument are made after conversion, this value should be empty and `meta.derivedFrom` used instead.
```

    } 
}
```
`options.scoringFormula`: Required string. An expression of a logical formula to be calculated by LORIS LParse. The formula is evaluated to true or false if a boolean score, or a numeric if a number score. The result is dependent and defined by the value of this key.

`options.readonly`: Required boolean.
                    True or false that the field is read only i.e. not editable on the front-end but
                    submittable on save. This key is different to `rules.disableIf` in that it is not
                    dependent on a condition, and a 'disabled' field is not submittable.

> `options.hideInSurvey`: Required boolean. True or false that this score field will be hidden and not displayed when the instrument is in survey mode.

Reviewer 5: @zaliqarosli I think in some cases, we need to hide other fields also in Survey mode apart from score fields.
